# Rules

## Introduction
Eiffel Intelligence uses JMESPath for extracting informations from events and 
for post processing of data in an aggregated object.

JMESPath is a query language for JSON. You can extract and transform elements 
from a JSON document. The result of applying a JMESPath expression against a 
JSON document will always result in valid JSON, provided there are no errors 
during the evaluation process. This also means that, with the exception of 
JMESPath expression types, JMESPath only supports the same types support by 
JSON:

    number (integers and double-precision floating-point format in JSON)
    string
    boolean (true or false)
    array (an ordered, sequence of values)
    object (an unordered collection of key value pairs)
    null

Let's go to an example of simple query called identifier. An identifier is the 
most basic expression and can be used to extract a single element from a JSON 
object. The return value for an identifier is the value associated with the 
identifier. If the identifier does not exist in the JSON document, than a null 
value is returned. Assume that we have such JSON object 
{"a": {"b": {"c": {"d": "value"}}}} and we need to get the string "value" from 
object. The JMESPath identifier will be a.b.c.d. [JMESPath identifier documentation](http://jmespath.org/specification.html#identifiers).

Lets do some more complicated example on Eiffel event where we need to extract 
the "SUCCESS" from the event. The expression for such JSON query will be 
data.value

## Rule set up

Rules for object aggregation consist of JSON object with a defined structure 
inside it. Key in this object is rule specification and value is JMESPath 
identifier. Separate rule set is created for each event type that is going to 
take participation in creating of aggregated object. This means that if you 
want to create your aggregated object from 3 event types and all other event 
types to discard, you will need 3 set of rules. Each rule might contain some of 
these keys, that have not null or empty values. Explicit list of rule keys are 
below:

**TemplateName** - used for specifying a template group, any string you like to 
name your template

**Type** - Eiffel event type, which will be used to find the matching rule set 
for the received Eiffel event while creating aggregated object. Example: 
"EiffelConfidenceLevelModifiedEvent"

**TypeRule**- JMESPath identifier for the location of Eiffel event type in 
received Eiffel event. Example: "meta.type".

**IdRule** - JMESPath identifier for the location of Eiffel event id in 
received Eiffel event. Example: "meta.id". Used as fall back when storing in 
database and no id is provided or to link id of aggregated objects to events 
that contributed to the aggregated object.

**StartEvent** - denotes if this event type starts the object aggregation. If 
StartEvent is "YES" then it will be the first processed event in the aggregation 
sequence. If StartEvent is "NO" then Eiffel event of this type will be used to 
append information to existing aggregated object. If no aggregated object exist 
then it will wait a certain time as defined by property
 _waitlist.collection.ttlValue_ in [application's properties](https://github.com/Ericsson/eiffel-intelligence/blob/master/src/main/resources/application.properties) 
 until wanted aggregated object has been created. If no aggregated object is 
 created in time then the event will no longer be processed and it will be 
 removed from the wait list.

**IdentifyRules** - JMESPath identifier of ids that will be used to search for 
an existing aggregated object. Should produce an JSON array, for example 
    "[meta.id]" 

which will return the specified field in array 

    ["sb6e51h0-25ch-4dh7-b9sd-876g8e6kde47"]. 

Another common example is 

    "links | [?type=='CAUSE'].target"

 which will extract the event id from links array value of target, where "type" 
 is equal "CAUSE". Links in an Eiffel event look like 

    {
       "links":[
          {
             "target":"f37d59a3-069e-4f4c-8cc5-a52e73501a75",
             "type":"CAUSE"
          },
         {
             "target":"cfce572b-c3j4-441e-abc9-b62f48080ca2",
             "type":"ELEMENT"
         }
      ]
    }

and applying the above links extraction rule will give ["f37d59a3-069e-4f4c-8cc5-a52e73501a75"]

If ids of all links is needed then
   
    links | [].target

will return
 
    [
     "f37d59a3-069e-4f4c-8cc5-a52e73501a75",
     "cfce572b-c3j4-441e-abc9-b62f48080ca2"
    ]

**MatchIdRules** - This rule is used to search in database containing the 
aggregated objects. The syntax of this rule is specific to querying in Mongo DB. 
Use marker "%IdentifyRules_objid%" to inject the ids generated by 
**_IdentifyRules_**. Examples: 

    {"_id": "%IdentifyRules_objid%"}, 
    { "$and": [{"aggregatedObject.testCaseExecutions.testCaseStartedEventId": "%IdentifyRules%"}]}

**ExtractionRules** - JSON object of JMESPath identifier(s) which will create 
or modify the existing data in aggregated object. For a start event the content 
extracted with this rule will be the initial aggregated object. 

For example 

    "{confidenceLevels :[{ eventId:meta.id, time:meta.time, name:data.name, value:data.value}]}" 

will create JSON object "confidenceLevels" and the value of it will be array 
with 1 JSON element. This one key in this JSON object will be "eventId" and its 
value will be the result of searching for "meta.id" identifier in the received 
Eiffel event, for example "cfce572b-c3j4-441e-abc9-b62f48080ca2" and so on. 

Evaluation of specified extraction rules on the received Eiffel event may be 
the JSON object 

    {
      "confidenceLevels":[
        {
         "eventId":"f37d59a3-069e-4f4c-8cc5-a52e73501a75",
         "name":"readyForDelivery",
         "time":1481875944272,
         "value":"SUCCESS"
        }
     ]
    } 

which could be added to the root of aggregated object or to the inner structure 
of aggregated object depending on **_MergeResolverRules_**.

**MergeResolverRules** - This is a JSON object describing the entire path or 
parts of the path to where the extracted content will be stored. More detailed 
explanation can be found [here](./MergeResolverRules.md)

**ProcessRules** - This rule is used to append (_only additions or modifications, 
no deletions, of existing content at time rule is applied_) new key value pairs 
in the aggregated object based on existing values in the aggregation object. 
For example if you have aggregated the job finished time and job started time 
then you can create one more value for the computed duration so that other 
systems do not need to compute it.

**History Rules** are used if you need to aggregate data from existing events 
linked upstream by received event. They are explained [**here**](./History-rules.md)

## Existing rules files

Currently existing rules files in Eiffel Intelligence can be found [**here.**](https://github.com/Ericsson/eiffel-intelligence/tree/master/src/main/resources)
